= motion-calabash

Allows RubyMotion projects to easily use Calabash iOS for automated acceptance
testing.

For information about Calabash see: http://calaba.sh

== Requirements

* RubyMotion 1.0 or greater (see http://www.rubymotion.com).

== Installation

  $ (sudo) gem install motion-calabash

== Setup

1. Edit the +Rakefile+ of your RubyMotion project and add the following require lines.

     require 'rubygems'
     require 'motion-calabash'

If you're using a Gemfile in your project (which you probably should), please also add `gem 'motion.calabash'` (possibly a version) to this file.


== Usage

motion-calabash introduces a +calabash+ Rake-task namespace to your project.
The namespace currently contains three tasks: +scaffold+, +run+, +console+.

The +scaffold+ target will generate the file structure and launch hooks needed to run calabash tests on your RubyMotion app.

  $ krukow:~/github/rubymotion-inspect$ rake calabash:scaffold
    Run Scaffolding features
    Info Run rake calabash:run to try
    Copy launch file /Users/krukow/.rbenv/versions/1.9.3-p194/lib/ruby/gems/1.9.1/gems/motion-calabash-0.9.137/scripts/launch.rb to features/support/launch.rb

  $ krukow:~/github/rubymotion-inspect$ tree features
    features
    ├── my_first.feature
    ├── step_definitions
    │   ├── calabash_steps.rb
    │   └── my_first_steps.rb
    └── support
        ├── env.rb
        ├── hooks.rb
        └── launch.rb


The +run+ task can be used to run your suite of Calabash tests on your development build. You can run on simulator or on a USB connected device.

You can supply the following parameters +target+, +device+, +os+, +args+

  $ rake calabash:run
  $ rake calabash:run simulator
  $ rake calabash:run device
  $ rake calabash:run simulator target=5.1
  $ rake calabash:run simulator target=6.0 device=ipad
  $ rake calabash:run simulator args="features/my_first.feature --tags @a"

The +console+ task gives you an interactive console where you can try out Calabash functions and explore your app. It is very useful when writing automated tests. See also: [Explore interactively!](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/01-Getting-started-guide) and [Ruby API](https://github.com/calabash/calabash-ios/wiki/03.5-Calabash-iOS-Ruby-API).

  $ rake calabash:console

(+device+ and +os+ params apply too).

== Examples

Two sample projects

[Beers](https://github.com/krukow/motion-calabash-inspect2013)

[RubyMotion-Inspect](https://github.com/calabash/rubymotion-inspect)
